# 🎯 What We're Building

[Demo site from here!!!](https://vocalip-4s7p-git-main-makimakivers-projects.vercel.app)

We are developing a revolutionary platform that enables voice actors to register and monetize their voices as intellectual property (IP) assets on the Story Protocol. In short this system will look like a voice selling platform where video creators can choose which cloned voice to use in there videos. 

Key Features:
- Fully decentralised voice Registration System for IP Assets
- Smart Contract Integration with Story Protocol
- AI Voice Cloning Implementation
- Dispute Resolution for Voice Authenticity

## 🔍 Problems

Recent technology enables us to bring anime characters to life, and these characters can now even talk with you on a call.

- However, the IP rights of voice actors are being violated, since anyone can easily clone the voice of a random cartoon character and use it to create content on major social media platforms (e.g., YouTube, Instagram).
- None of the profits generated by this AI‐generated content are attributed back to the original voice actor, which is extremely problematic.
- In addition, the business model of AI content-creation tools is imperfect: users must pay a subscription fee up front and only generate revenue afterward.
- AI-driven voice remixing is an amazing technology, but there are still many areas in need of improvement.

> **Summary:**  
> Voice actors currently receive no share of the profits when creators use AI-cloned versions of their voices to generate monetised content on platforms like YouTube or Instagram

 

## **💡 Solution**

As far as we know, there isn’t currently a system that lets users register their voice as an IP asset on story protocol. 
- We’d like to use this buildathon as an opportunity to create an application where dozens of voice actors can register their voices as IP assets on Story. 
- In this model, any AI-generated voice-over content is treated as a derivative work of the original voice. When creators use these cloned voices to generate revenue, a share of the profits will be attributed back to the original voice actor via the PIL terms in the Story SDK. 
- To further ensure trust and authenticity, we are also integrating Story Protocol’s dispute resolution functionality. If anyone believes a registered voice is not original or has been misused, they can easily raise a dispute on-chain through the platform. This process guarantees that only legitimate voice assets remain listed and voice actors are protected against impersonation or fraud.
- At this stage, we recognize there are lacks in our project plan, so we’ll be refining these ideas later.
> *Summary: We solve the issue by enabling voice actors to register their voice as an IP asset on story protocol. 

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Frontend:** Next.js
- **Styling:** Tailwind CSS
- **Wallet & Blockchain Integration:** Tomo SDK
- **IP Asset Management:** Story SDK
- **AI Voice Cloning:** Eleven Labs API
- **Smart Contracts:** Solidity

## **💻 How to run?**

Fist you will need to create `.env` file and configure the following in the file
```
PINATA_JWT=
GATEWAY_URL=
PINATA_GATEWAY_TOKEN=
PINATA_API_KEY=
PINATA_SECRET_API_KEY=
WALLET_PRIVATE_KEY=
STORY_NETWORK=aeneid
ELEVENLABS_API_KEY=
NEXT_PUBLIC_WALLET_PRIVATE_KEY=
```

Then you will run followings in terminal ( we used bun as Pinata only allows bun)
```bash
bun install 
bun run dev
```
## **🔗 Links**

[Notion page from here](https://spiny-elderberry-76f.notion.site/Voice-as-an-IP-assets-1fd1ff50043d8013bdeec147323122a9)

[ExcalidDraw from here](https://link.excalidraw.com/l/4NzefGCZCYr/45KENb8jWIa)

[Youtube Demo video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tWFWWgxFrwI)

[Presentation](https://www.canva.com/design/DAGp9yRyHf0/bRlXRU2EpQohIYXEAAsWRg/edit?utm_content=DAGp9yRyHf0&utm_campaign=designshare&utm_medium=link2&utm_source=sharebutton)



